


END OF SEMESTER LETTER
----------------------
Core Lab Systems, Design & Technology BFA
Parsons School of Design, The New School

December 15, 2023
Lenapehoking (New York, NY)




Dear Jun, Zelong, Sophie, Rainy, Xiaoxu, Ronny, Yingduo, Krystal, Kiwi, Ray, Soy, Alex, and Saul,

This was an unusual semester.
It was punctuated by the university's part time faculty going on strike,
effectively shutting down the university for 25 days.

This happened with the support of many groups:
students,
parents,
full time faculty,
and many others outside the institution.



While the part time faculty strike has ended,
students are now making demands.

Students want:
To have tuition refunded,
To have tuition increases frozen,
To change the governance structure of the university,
To hold leadership accountable,
And more.

I am inspired and moved by their/your work in this moment.



In our class, we learned about web-based systems.
We thought critically about them.
We acquired skills to build them.

Right before the strike started,
we were working on writing node-based js applications.
Applications that interact with websites across the network.

You didn't get a chance to develop a project using these techniques.

As we end the semester together,
I wanted to share an example of such a project with you.



This code generates a file with contact information for all faculty,
at least all faculty listed on the university website.



Right before the strike started,
we had a conversation in class.

We talked about the negotiation process as a system.
We noted how power is distributed among the actors.

We looked at the digital systems that are at play.
We noticed that there is a power imbalance around mass communications:

The university leadership can broadcast messages to the entire community.
Others are unable to do it so easily.

The ability to communicate affects both organizing and messaging.



This code combs through the faculty directory pages on The New School website.
This information is publicly available.



This program gets the individual profile URLs for each person,
loads that page,
and gets contact information from it.

All of the data is stored in an object.
The data is then saved to a JSON file.
The file is then converted to a CSV file.

This information is publicly available.



You developed technical fluencies during this semester.
These skills do not exist in a vacuum.

They can be used for political engagement and collective work.
They can be used to intervene in how power is distributed.

You can contribute and participate with them.

Especially if you are working towards shared goals with a community you are a part of.
Especially if you work in coordination with other community members.



This code generates the means to broadcast a message at scale.
The way it is used is not neutral.

Who would benefit from it?
Who should have access to it?
How can it be used to better the conditions of the community?



A lot of learning happened this semester.
Before, during, and after the strike.

I loved getting to know you and your work.

Please stay in touch,

Or
